---
layout: vesperas
title:  "St. Philip Benizi, Confessor"
latinTitle: "S. Philippi Benitii Confessoris (III. Classis)"
date:   2022-08-22 00:00:00
eventDate:   2022-08-23 17:30:00
categories: jekyll css
incipit: "(c3) De(h)us(h'_) †(,) in(h) ad(h)ju(h)tó-(hi)ri(h)um(h) mé(h)um(h'_) in(h)tén(gh)de.(h.) (::) R/. Dó(h)mi(h)ne(h'_) (,) ad(h) ad(h)ju-(h)ván(h)dum(h) me(h'_) fe(h)stí(gh)na.(h.) (:) Gló-(h)ri-(h)a(h) Pá(h)tri,(h) et(h) Fí-(h)li-(h)o,(h'_) (,) et(h) Spi-(h)rí-(h)tu-(h)i(h) Sán(gh)cto.(h.) (:) Si(h)cut(h) é-(h)rat(h) in(h) prin(h)cí(h)pi-(h)o,(h) et(h) nunc,(h) et(h) sem(h)per(h.) (,) et(h) in(h) saé(h)cu-(h)la(h) sae(h)cu-(h)ló(h)rum.(h) A(gh)men.(h.) (;) Al(h)le-(i)lú(hg~)ia.(g.) (::)"
# First Antiphon
firstAnt: "(c4) QUI(h) há(f)bi(fg)tas(g) *() in(h!iwj) cæ(j_h)lis,(i_[uh:l]j) (,) mi(h)se(h)ré(i')re(h) no(g.)bis.(g.) (::)"
firstAntAnotation: "8. G"
firstAntEng: "Thou who dwellest in heaven, * have mercy on us."
firstPsalmNo: 122
firstPsalm: "(c4)Ad(g) te(h) le(j)vá(j)vi(j) ó(j)cu(j)los(j) me(k jr)os,(j.) *(:) qui(j) há(j)bi(j)tas(i) in(j) cæ(h gr)lis.(g.) (::Z) 2. Ec(j)ce(j) sic(j)ut(j) ó(j)cu(j)li(j) ser(j)vó(k jr)rum,(j.) *(:) in(j) má(j)ni(j)bus(j) do(j)mi(j)nó(j)rum(i) su(j)ó(h gr)rum.(g.) (::Z) 3. Sic(j)ut(j) ó(j)cu(j)li(j) an(j)cíl(j)læ(j) in(j) má(j)ni(j)bus(j) dó(j)mi(j)næ(j) su(k jr)æ:(j.) *(:) i(j)ta(j) ó(j)cu(j)li(j) nos(j)tri(j) ad(j) Dó(j)mi(j)num,(j) De(j)um(j) nos(j)trum,(j) do(j)nec(j) mi(j)se(j)re(j)á(i)tur(j) nos(h gr)tri.(g.) (::Z) 4. Mi(j)se(j)ré(j)re(j) nos(j)tri,(j) Dó(j)mi(j)ne,(j) mi(j)se(j)ré(j)re(j) nos(k jr)tri:(j.) *(:) qui(j)a(j) mul(j)tum(j) re(j)plé(j)ti(j) su(j)mus(j) de(j)spec(i)ti(j)ó(h gr)ne:(g.) (::Z)5. Qui(j)a(j) mul(j)tum(j) re(j)plé(j)ta(j) est(j) á(j)ni(j)ma(j)  nos(k jr)tra:(j.) *(:) op(j)pró(j)bri(j)um(j) ab(j)un(j)dán(j)ti(j)bus,(j) et(j) de(j)spéc(j)ti(j)o(i) su(j)pér(h gr)bis.(g.) (::Z) 6. Gló(j)ri(j)a(j) Pa(j)tri,(j) et(j) Fí(k)li(jr)o,(j.) *(:) et(j) Spi(j)rí(j)tu(i)i(j) Sanc(h gr)to.(g.) (::Z) 7. Sic(j)ut(j) e(j)rat(j) in(j) prin(j)cí(j)pi(j)o,(j) et(j) nunc,(j) et(j) sem(k jr)per,(j.) *(:) et(j) in(j) sǽ(j)cu(j)la(j) sæ(j)cu(j)ló(i)rum.(j) A(h gr)men.(g.) (::Z) [Ant.]() Qui(h) há(f)bi(fg)tas(g) *() in(h!iwj) cæ(j_h)lis,(i_[uh:l]j) (,) mi(h)se(h)ré(i')re(h) no(g.)bis.(g.) (::)"
firstPsalmEng: "1. To thee have I lifted up my eyes, * who dwellest in heaven.<br/>2. Behold as the eyes of servants * are on the hands of their masters,<br/>3. As the eyes of the handmaid are on the hands of her mistress: * so are our eyes unto the Lord our God, until he have mercy on us.<br/>4. Have mercy on us, O Lord, have mercy on us: * for we are greatly filled with contempt.<br/>5. For our soul is greatly filled: * we are a reproach to the rich, and contempt to the proud.<br/>6. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.<br/>7. As it was in the beginning, is now, * and ever shall be, world without end. Amen.<br/><br/><span class='rubrics'>Ant.</span> Thou who dwellest in heaven, have mercy on us."
# Second Antiphon
secondAnt: "(c4) AD(f)ju(g)tó(h')ri(g)um(f') no(g)strum(f'_) *(,) in(f) nó(e_[uh:l]f)mi(g)ne(fe) Dó(d)mi(d)ni.(d.) (::)"
secondAntAnotation: "1. g2"
secondAntEng: "Our help is * in the name of the Lord."
secondPsalmNo: 123
secondPsalm: "(c4)Ni(f)si(gh) qui(h)a(h) Dó(h)mi(h)nus(h) e(h)rat(h) in(h) no(h)bis,(h) di(ixi)cat(h) nunc(h) Is(g)ra(h)ël:(h.) *(:) ni(h)si(h) qui(h)a(h) Dó(h)mi(h)nus(h) e(h)rat(g) in(f) no(g)bis,(ghg.) (::Z) 2. Cum(h) ex(h)súr(h)ge(h)rent(h) hó(ixi)mi(h)nes(h) in(g) nos,(h.) *(:) for(h)te(h) vi(h)vos(h) de(g)glu(f)tís(g)sent(g) nos:(ghg.) (::Z) 3. Cum(h) i(h)ra(h)sce(h)ré(h)tur(h) fu(h)ror(h) e(h)ó(ixi)rum(h) in(g) nos,(h.) *(:) fór(h)si(h)tan(h) a(h)qua(h) ab(h)sor(g)bu(f)ís(g)set(g) nos.(ghg.) (::Z) 4. Tor(h)rén(h)tem(h) per(h)trans(h)í(h)vit(h) á(ixi)ni(h)ma(h) nos(g)tra:(h.) *(:) fór(h)si(h)tan(h) per(h)trans(h)ís(h)set(h) á(h)ni(h)ma(h) nos(h)tra(h) a(h)quam(h) in(h)to(g)le(f)rá(g)bi(g)lem.(ghg.) (::Z) 5. Be(h)ne(h)díc(ixi)tus(h) Dó(g)mi(h)nus(h.) *(:) qui(h) non(h) de(h)dit(h) nos,(h) in(h) cap(h)ti(h)ó(h)nem(h) dén(h)ti(h)bus(g) e(f)ó(g)rum.(ghg.) (::)
6. A(h)ni(h)ma(h) nos(h)tra(h) sic(h)ut(h) pas(ixi)ser(h) e(h)rép(g)ta(h) est(h.) *(:) de(h) lá(h)que(h)o(g) ve(f)nán(g)ti(g)um.(ghg.) (::Z) 7. Lá(h)que(h)us(ixi) con(h)trí(g)tus(h) est,(h.) *(:) et(h) nos(h) li(h)be(h)rá(g)ti(f) su(g)mus.(ghg.) (::Z) 8. Ad(h)ju(h)tó(h)ri(h)um(h) nos(h)trum(h) in(h) nó(ixi)mi(h)ne(h) Dó(g)mi(h)ni,(h.) *(:) qui(h) fe(h)cit(h) cæ(h)lum(g) et(f) ter(g)ram.(ghg.) (::Z) 9. Gló(h)ri(h)a(h) Pa(ixi)tri,(h) et(h) Fí(g)li(h)o,(h.) *(:) et(h) Spi(h)rí(h)tu(g)i(f) Sanc(g)to.(ghg.) (::Z) 10. Sic(h)ut(h) e(h)rat(h) in(h) prin(h)cí(h)pi(h)o,(h) et(h) nunc,(ixi) et(h) sem(g)per,(h.) *(:) et(h) in(h) sǽ(h)cu(h)la(h) sæ(h)cu(h)ló(g)rum.(f) A(g)men.(ghg.) (::Z) [Ant.]() Ad(f)ju(g)tó(h')ri(g)um(f') no(g)strum(f'_) in(f) nó(e_[uh:l]f)mi(g)ne(fe) Dó(d)mi(d)ni.(d.) (::)"
secondPsalmEng: "1. If it had not been that the Lord was with us, let Israel now say: * If it had not been that the Lord was with us,<br/>2. When men rose up against us, * perhaps they had swallowed us up alive.<br/>3. When their fury was enkindled against us, * perhaps the waters had swallowed us up.<br/>4. Our soul hath passed through a torrent: * perhaps our soul had passed through a water insupportable.<br/>5. Blessed be the Lord, * who hath not given us to be a prey to their teeth.<br/>6. Our soul hath been delivered as a sparrow * out of the snare of the fowlers.<br/>7. The snare is broken, * and we are delivered.<br/>8. Our help is in the name of the Lord, * who made heaven and earth.<br/>9. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.<br/>10. As it was in the beginning, is now, * and ever shall be, world without end. Amen.<br/><br/><span class='rubrics'>Ant.</span> Our help is in the name of the Lord."
# Third Antiphon
thirdAnt: "(c4) IN(d) cir(e_[uh:l]f)cú(g)i(e)tu(gh) pó(f)pu(e)li(d') su(e)i(d_c) *() Dó(ffg)mi(f)nus,(f.) (;) ex(f) hoc(ghg) nunc(h) et(f) us(e_[uh:l]f)que(g) in(fe) sǽ(d)cu(d)lum.(d.) (::)"
thirdAntAnotation: "1. f"
thirdAntEng: "The Lord standeth round his people * from this time forth and for evermore."
thirdPsalmNo: 124
thirdPsalm: "(c4)Qui(f) con(gh)fí(h)dunt(h) in(h) Dó(h)mi(h)no,(h) sic(ixi)ut(h) mons(h) Si(g)on:(h.) *(:) non(h) com(h)mo(h)vé(h)bi(h)tur(h) in(h) æ(h)tér(h)num,(h) qui(h) há(h)bi(h)tat(h) in(g) Je(f)rú(gh)sa(g)lem.(gf..) (::Z) 2. Mon(h)tes(h) in(h) cir(h)cú(h)i(h)tu(h) e(h)jus: †(g.) et(h) Dó(h)mi(h)nus(h) in(h) cir(h)cú(h)i(h)tu(h) pó(ixi)pu(h)li(h) su(g)i,(h.) *(:) ex(h) hoc(h) nunc(h) et(h) us(h)que(g) in(f) sǽ(gh)cu(g)lum.(gf..) (::Z) 3. Qui(h)a(h) non(h) re(h)lín(h)quet(h) Dó(h)mi(h)nus(h) vir(h)gam(h) pec(h)ca(h)tó(h)rum(h) su(h)per(h) sor(ixi)tem(h) jus(h)tó(g)rum:(h.) *(:) ut(h) non(h) ex(h)tén(h)dant(h) jus(h)ti(h) ad(h) in(h)i(h)qui(h)tá(h)tem(h) ma(g)nus(f) su(gh)as.(gf..) (::Z) 4. Bé(h)ne(h)fac,(h) Dó(ixi)mi(h)ne,(h) bo(g)nis,(h.) *(:) et(h) rec(g)tis(f) cor(gh)de.(gf..) (::Z) 5. De(h)cli(h)nán(h)tes(h) au(h)tem(h) in(h) ob(h)li(h)ga(h)ti(h)ó(h)nes(h) ad(h)dú(h)cet(h) Dó(h)mi(h)nus(h) cum(h) o(h)pe(h)rán(h)ti(h)bus(h) in(h)i(ixi)qui(h)tá(g)tem:(h.) *(:) pax(h) su(g)per(f) Is(gh)ra(g)ël.(gf..) (::Z) 6. Gló(h)ri(h)a(h) Pa(ixi)tri,(h) et(h) Fí(g)li(h)o,(h.) *(:) et(h) Spi(h)rí(h)tu(g)i(f) Sanc(gh)to.(gf..) (::Z) 7. Sic(h)ut(h) e(h)rat(h) in(h) prin(h)cí(h)pi(h)o,(h) et(h) nunc,(ixi) et(h) sem(g)per,(h.) *(:) et(h) in(h) sǽ(h)cu(h)la(h) sæ(h)cu(h)ló(g)rum.(f) A(gh)men.(gf..) (::Z) [Ant.]() In(d) cir(e_[uh:l]f)cú(g)i(e)tu(gh) pó(f)pu(e)li(d') su(e)i(d_c) Dó(ffg)mi(f)nus,(f.) (;) ex(f) hoc(ghg) nunc(h) et(f) us(e_[uh:l]f)que(g) in(fe) sǽ(d)cu(d)lum.(d.) (::)"
thirdPsalmEng: "1. They that trust in the Lord shall be as mount Sion: * he shall not be moved for ever that dwelleth in Jerusalem.<br/> 2. Mountains are round about it: * so the Lord is round about his people from henceforth now and for ever.<br/> 3. For the Lord will not leave the rod of sinners upon the lot of the just: * that the just may not stretch forth their hands to iniquity.<br/>4. Do good, O Lord, to those that are good, * and to the upright of heart.<br/>5. But such as turn aside into bonds, the Lord shall lead out with the workers of iniquity: * peace upon Israel.<br/>6. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.<br/>7. As it was in the beginning, is now, * and ever shall be, world without end. Amen.<br/><br/><span class='rubrics'>Ant.</span> The Lord standeth round his people from this time forth and for evermore."
# Fourth Antiphon
fourthAnt: "(c3) MA(e)gni(g')fi(h)cá(i)vit(g_[uh:l]h) Dó(i_[uh:l]j)mi(ji)nus(i.) *(,) fá(h)ce(g')re(h) no(i)bís(hg)cum :(e.) (;) fa(f)cti(ed) su(f'_)mus(h) læ(g)tán(e.)tes.(e.) (::)"
fourthAntAnotation: "7. a"
fourthAntEng: "The Lord hath * done great things for us, whereof we rejoice."
fourthPsalmNo: 125
fourthPsalm: "(c3)In(hg) con(hi)ver(i)tén(i)do(i) Dó(i)mi(i)nus(i) cap(i)ti(i)vi(i)tá(k)tem(j) Si(i)on:(j.) *(:) fac(i)ti(i) su(i)mus(i) sic(i)ut(i) con(j)so(i)lá(h)ti:(gf..) (::Z) 2. Tunc(i) re(i)plé(i)tum(i) est(i) gáu(i)di(i)o(k) os(j) nos(i)trum:(j.) *(:) et(i) lin(i)gua(i) nos(i)tra(i) ex(i)sul(i)ta(j)ti(i)ó(h)ne.(gf..) (::Z) 3. Tunc(i) di(i)cent(i) in(k)ter(j) Gen(i)tes:(j.) *(:) Ma(i)gni(i)fi(i)cá(i)vit(i) Dó(i)mi(i)nus(i) fá(i)ce(i)re(j) cum(i) e(h)is.(gf..) (::Z) 4. Ma(i)gni(i)fi(i)cá(i)vit(i) Dó(i)mi(i)nus(i) fá(i)ce(i)re(k) no(j)bís(i)cum:(j.) *(:) fac(i)ti(i) su(j)mus(i) læ(i)tán(h)tes.(gf..) (::Z) 5. Con(i)vér(i)te,(i) Dó(i)mi(i)ne,(i) cap(i)ti(i)vi(i)tá(k)tem(j) nos(i)tram,(j.) *(:) sic(i)ut(i) tor(j)rens(i) in(i) aus(h)tro.(gf..) (::Z) 6. Qui(i) sé(i)mi(i)nant(k) in(j) lá(i)cri(j)mis,(j.) *(:) in(i) ex(i)sul(i)ta(i)ti(i)ó(j)ne(i) me(h)tent.(gf..) (::) 7. E(i)ún(i)tes(i) i(k)bant(j) et(j) fle(i)bant,(j.) *(:) mit(i)tén(i)tes(i) sé(j)mi(i)na(i) su(h)a.(gf..) (::Z) 8. Ve(i)ni(i)én(i)tes(i) au(i)tem(i) vé(i)ni(i)ent(i) cum(i) ex(i)sul(i)ta(k)ti(j)ó(i)ne,(j.) *(:) por(i)tán(i)tes(i) ma(i)ní(j)pu(i)los(i) su(h)os.(gf..) (::Z) 9. Gló(i)ri(i)a(i) Pa(k)tri,(j) et(j) Fí(i)li(j)o,(j.) *(:) et(i) Spi(i)rí(j)tu(i)i(i) Sanc(h)to.(gf..) (::Z) 10. Sic(i)ut(i) e(i)rat(i) in(i) prin(i)cí(i)pi(i)o,(i) et(i) nunc,(k) et(j) sem(i)per,(j.) *(:) et(i) in(i) sǽ(i)cu(i)la(i) sæ(i)cu(i)ló(j)rum.(i) A(h)men.(gf..) (::Z) [Ant.]() Ma(e)gni(g')fi(h)cá(i)vit(g_[uh:l]h) Dó(i_[uh:l]j)mi(ji)nus(i.) (,) fá(h)ce(g')re(h) no(i)bís(hg)cum :(e.) (;) fa(f)cti(ed) su(f'_)mus(h) læ(g)tán(e.)tes.(e.) (::)"
fourthPsalmEng: "1. When the Lord brought back the captivity of Sion, * we became like men comforted.<br/> 2. Then was our mouth filled with gladness; * and our tongue with joy.<br/> 3. Then shall they say among the Gentiles: * The Lord hath done great things for them.<br/> 4. The Lord hath done great things for us: * we are become joyful.<br/> 5. Turn again our captivity, O Lord, * as a stream in the south.<br/> 6. They that sow in tears * shall reap in joy.<br/> 7. Going they went and wept, * casting their seeds.<br/> 8. But coming they shall come with joyfulness, * carrying their sheaves.<br/> 9. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.<br/> 10. As it was in the beginning, is now, * and ever shall be, world without end. Amen.<br/><br/><span class='rubrics'>Ant.</span> The Lord hath done great things for us, whereof we rejoice."
# Fifth Antiphon
fifthAnt: "(c3) DO(f')mi(e)nus(f) æ(df)dí(h')fi(i)cet(h) *() no(ij)bis(i') do(h)mum,(h.) (;) et(i) cu(h)stó(gh)di(f)at(fe) ci(f)vi(e)tá(d.)tem.(d.) (::)"
fifthAntAnotation: "5. a"
fifthAntEng: "The Lord builds * the house and keeps the city."
fifthPsalmNo: 126
fifthPsalm: "(c3)Ni(d)si(f) Dó(h)mi(h)nus(h) æ(h)di(h)fi(h)cá(h)ve(h)rit(h) do(i)mum,(h.) *(:) in(h) va(h)num(h) la(h)bo(h)ra(h)vé(h)runt(h) qui(h) æ(h)dí(i)fi(g)cant(g) e(h)am.(f.) (::Z) 2. Ni(h)si(h) Dó(h)mi(h)nus(h) cus(h)to(h)dí(h)e(h)rit(h) ci(h)vi(h)tá(i)tem,(h.) *(:) frus(h)tra(h) ví(h)gi(h)lat(h) qui(h) cus(h)tó(i)dit(g) e(h)am.(f.) (::Z) 3. Va(h)num(h) est(h) vo(h)bis(h) an(h)te(h) lu(h)cem(h) súr(i)ge(h)re:(h.) *(:) súr(h)gi(h)te(h) post(h)quam(h) se(h)dé(h)ri(h)tis,(h) qui(h) man(h)du(h)cá(h)tis(h) pa(i)nem(g) do(g)ló(h)ris.(f.) (::Z) 4. Cum(h) dé(h)de(h)rit(h) di(h)léc(h)tis(h) su(h)is(h) som(i)num:(h.) *(:) ec(h)ce(h) he(h)ré(h)di(h)tas(h) Dó(h)mi(h)ni(h) fí(h)li(h)i:(h) mer(h)ces,(h) fruc(i)tus(g) ven(h)tris.(f.) (::Z) 5. Sic(h)ut(h) sa(h)gít(h)tæ(h) in(h) ma(h)nu(h) pot(h)én(i)tis:(h.) *(:) i(h)ta(h) fí(h)li(h)i(h) ex(i)cus(g)só(h)rum.(f.) (::Z) 6. Be(h)á(h)tus(h) vir(h) qui(h) im(h)plé(h)vit(h) de(h)si(h)dé(h)ri(h)um(h) su(h)um(h) ex(h) ip(i)sis:(h.) *(:) non(h) con(h)fun(h)dé(h)tur(h) cum(h) lo(h)qué(h)tur(h) in(h)i(h)mí(h)cis(h) su(i)is(g) in(g) por(h)ta.(f.) (::Z) 7. Gló(h)ri(h)a(h) Pa(h)tri,(h) et(h) Fí(i)li(h)o,(h.) *(:) et(h) Spi(h)rí(i)tu(g)i(g) Sanc(h)to.(f.) (::Z) 8. Sic(h)ut(h) e(h)rat(h) in(h) prin(h)cí(h)pi(h)o,(h) et(h) nunc,(h) et(h) sem(i)per,(h.) *(:) et(h) in(h) sǽ(h)cu(h)la(h) sæ(h)cu(h)ló(i)rum.(g) A(h)men.(f.) (::Z) [Ant.]() Do(f')mi(e)nus(f) æ(df)dí(h')fi(i)cet(h) no(ij)bis(i') do(h)mum,(h.) (;) et(i) cu(h)stó(gh)di(f)at(fe) ci(f)vi(e)tá(d.)tem.(d.) (::)"
fifthPsalmEng: "1. Unless the Lord build the house, * they labour in vain that build it.<br/> 2. Unless the Lord keep the city, * he watcheth in vain that keepeth it.<br/> 3. It is vain for you to rise before light, * rise ye after you have sitten, you that eat the bread of sorrow.<br/> 4. When he shall give sleep to his beloved, * behold the inheritance of the Lord are children: the reward, the fruit of the womb.<br/> 5. As arrows in the hand of the mighty, * so the children of them that have been shaken.<br/> 6. Blessed is the man that hath filled the desire with them; * he shall not be confounded when he shall speak to his enemies in the gate.<br/> 7. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.<br/> 8. As it was in the beginning, is now, * and ever shall be, world without end. Amen.<br/><br/> <span class='rubrics'>Ant.</span> The Lord builds the house and keeps the city."
# Chapter:
chapterBibRef: "Sir 31:8-9"
chapter: "(c3) Be(h)á(h)tus(h) vir,(h) qui(h) in(h)vén(h)tus(h) est(h) si(h)ne(h) má(h)cu(h)la,(h) et(h) qui(h) post(h) au(h)rum(h) non(h) áb(h)i(h)it,(h) nec(h) spe(h)rá(h)vit(h) in(h) pe(h)cú(h)ni(h)a(h) et(h) the(h)sáu(h)ris.(h.) (:) Quis(g) est(g) hic,(g) et(g) lau(g)dá(g)bi(g)mus(f) e(g)um?(gh..) (:) fe(h)cit(h) e(h)nim(h) mi(h)ra(h)bí(h)li(h)a(h) in(h) vi(h)ta(h) su(f)a.(ef..) (::Z) R/. De(h)o(h) grá(f)ti(e)as(ef..) (::)"
chapterEng: "Blessed is the rich man that is found without blemish: and that hath not gone after gold, nor put his trust in money nor in treasures. Who is he, and we will praise him? for he hath done wonderful things in his life."
# Hymn:
hymn: "(c4) I(ghg)ste(e) Con(f)fés(ed)sor(de) Dó(c')mi(e)ni,(g') co(h)lén(h)tes(g.) (;) Quem(ghg) pi(e)e(f) lau(ed)dant(de) pó(c')pu(e)li(g') per(h) or(h)bem,(g.) (:) Hac(j) di(h')e(j) læ(ih)tus(gf) mé(h')ru(j)it(i') su(h)pré(g)mos(hih.) (,) Lau(g)dis(e') ho(f)nó(g.)res.(g.) (::Z) 2. Qui(ghg) pi(e)us,(f) pru(ed)dens,(de) hú(c')mi(e)lis,(g') pu(h)dí(h)cus,(g.) (;) Só(ghg)bri(e)am(f) du(ed)xit(de) si(c')ne(e) la(g')be(h) vi(h)tam,(g.) (:) Do(j)nec(h') hu(j)má(ih)nos(gf) a(h')ni(j)má(i')vit(h) au(g)ræ(hih.) (,) Spí(g)ri(e')tus(f) ar(g.)tus.(g.) (::Z) 3. Cu(ghg)jus(e) ob(f) præ(ed)stans(de) mé(c')ri(e)tum(g') fre(h)quén(h)ter,(g.) (;) Æ(ghg)gra(e) quæ(f) pas(ed)sim(de) ja(c')cu(e)é(g')re(h) mem(h)bra,(g.) (:) Ví(j)ri(h')bus(j) mor(ih)bi(gf) dó(h')mi(j)tis,(i') sa(h)lú(g)ti(hih.) (,) Re(g)sti(e')tu(f)ún(g.)tur.(g.) (::Z) 4. No(ghg)ster(e) hinc(f) il(ed)li(de) cho(c')rus(e) ob(g')se(h)quén(h)tem(g.) (;) Cón(ghg)ci(e)nit(f) lau(ed)dem(de) ce(c')le(e)brés(g')que(h) pal(h)mas,(g.) (:) Ut(j) pi(h')is(j) e(ih)jus(gf) pré(h')ci(j)bus(i') ju(h)vé(g)mur(hih.) (,) O(g)mne(e') per(f) æ(g.)vum.(g.) (::Z) 5. Sit(ghg) sa(e)lus(f) il(ed)li,(de) de(c')cus,(e) at(g')que(h) vir(h)tus,(g.) (;) Qui(ghg) su(e)per(f) cæ(ed)li(de) só(c')li(e)o(g') co(h)rú(h)scans,(g.) (:) Tó(j)ti(h')us(j) mun(ih)di(gf) sé(h')ri(j)em(i') gu(h)bér(g)nat,(hih.) (,) Tri(g)nus(e') et(f) u(g.)nus.(g.) (::) A(ghg)men.(fg..) (::)"
hymnAnnotation: "8."
hymnEng: "1. This the confessor of the Lord, whose triumph<br/> Now all the faithful celebrate, with gladness<br/> On this feast day year by year receiveth<br/> Merited honors.<br/> <br/>2. Saintly and prudent, modest in behaviour,<br/> Peaceful and sober, chaste was he, and lowly.<br/> While that life’s vigour, coursing through his members,<br/> Quickened his being.<br/> <br/>3. Sick ones of old time, to his tomb resorting,<br/> Sorely by ailments manifold afflicted,<br/> Oft-times have welcomed health and strength returning,<br/> At his petition.<br/> <br/>4. Whence we in chorus gladly do him honour,<br/> Chanting his praises with devout affection,<br/> That in his merits we may have a portion,<br/> Now and forever.<br/> <br/>5. His be the glory, power and salvation,<br/> Who over all things reigneth in the highest,<br/> Earth’s mighty fabric ruling and directing,<br/> Onely and Trinal.<br/> Amen."
hymnVer: "Justum dedúxit Dóminus per vias rectas."
hymnVerEng: "The Lord guided the just in right paths."
hymnRes: "Et osténdit illi regnum Dei."
hymnResEng: "And showed him the kingdom of God."
# Magnificat
magnifAnt: "(c3) HIC(e) vir,(eh) de(f)spí(f')ci(e)ens(d) mun(e_[uh:l]f)dum(e.) *(,) et(g') ter(h)ré(i)na,(hf) tri(h')úm(h)phans,(g.) (;) di(i')ví(i)ti(h')as(h) cæ(iji)lo(hg/h!i!h'_5) (,) cón(f)di(e')dit(f) o(f!gwh'!iv)re,(h) ma(e.)nu.(e.) (::)"
magnifAntAnotation: "8 G."
magnifAntEng: "Lo, a servant of God * who esteemed but little things earthly. And by word and work laid him up treasure in heaven."
magnificat: "(c3)Ma(e)gní(fe)fi(eh)cat(h.) +(:) á(h)ni(h)ma(h) me(g)a(h) Dó(f)mi(e)num.(e.) (::Z) 2. Et(e) ex(f)sul(h)tá(h)vit(h) spí(h)ri(h)tus(h) me(i)us(h.) *(:) in(h) De(h)o(h) sa(h)lu(h)tá(g)ri(h) me(f)o.(e.) (::Z) 3. Qui(e)a(f) re(h)spé(h)xit(h) hu(h)mi(h)li(h)tá(h)tem(h) an(h)cíl(h)læ(h) su(i)æ:(h.) *(:) ec(h)ce(h) e(h)nim(h) ex(h) hoc(h) be(h)á(h)tam(h) me(h) di(h)cent(h) om(h)nes(h) ge(h)ne(h)ra(g)ti(h)ó(f)nes.(e.) (::Z) 4. Qui(e)a(f) fe(h)cit(h) mi(h)hi(h) ma(h)gna(h) qui(h) pot(i)ens(h) est:(h.) *(:) et(h) sanc(h)tum(h) no(g)men(h) e(f)jus.(e.) (::Z) 5. Et(e) mi(f)se(h)ri(h)cór(h)di(h)a(h) e(h)jus(h) a(h) pro(h)gé(h)ni(h)e(h) in(h) pro(h)gé(i)ni(h)es(h.) *(:) ti(h)mén(h)ti(g)bus(h) e(f)um.(e.) (::Z) 6. Fe(e)cit(f) pot(h)én(h)ti(h)am(h) in(h) brá(h)chi(h)o(h) su(i)o:(h.) *(:) di(h)spér(h)sit(h) su(h)pér(h)bos(h) men(h)te(h) cor(g)dis(h) su(f)i.(e.) (::Z) 7. De(e)pó(f)su(h)it(h) pot(h)én(h)tes(h) de(h) se(i)de,(h.) *(:) et(h) ex(h)al(h)tá(g)vit(h) hú(f)mi(e)les.(e.) (::Z) 8. E(e)su(f)ri(h)én(h)tes(h) im(h)plé(h)vit(h) bo(i)nis:(h.) *(:) et(h) dí(h)vi(h)tes(h) di(h)mí(h)sit(g) in(h)á(f)nes.(e.) (::Z) 9. Su(e)scé(f)pit(h) Is(h)ra(h)ël(h) pú(h)e(h)rum(h) su(i)um,(h.) *(:) re(h)cor(h)dá(h)tus(h) mi(h)se(h)ri(h)cór(h)di(g)æ(h) su(f)æ.(e.) (::Z) 10. Sic(e)ut(f) lo(h)cú(h)tus(h) est(h) ad(h) pa(h)tres(h) nos(i)tros,(h.) *(:) A(h)bra(h)ham(h) et(h) sé(h)mi(h)ni(h) e(h)jus(g) in(h) sǽ(f)cu(e)la.(e.) (::Z) 11. Gló(e)ri(f)a(h) Pa(h)tri,(h) et(h) Fí(i)li(h)o,(h.) *(:) et(h) Spi(h)rí(h)tu(g)i(h) Sanc(f)to.(e.) (::Z) 12. Sic(e)ut(f) e(h)rat(h) in(h) prin(h)cí(h)pi(h)o,(h) et(h) nunc,(h) et(h) sem(i)per,(h.) *(:) et(h) in(h) sǽ(h)cu(h)la(h) sæ(h)cu(h)ló(g)rum.(h) A(f)men.(e.) (::Z) [Ant.]() Hic(e) vir,(eh) de(f)spí(f')ci(e)ens(d) mun(e_[uh:l]f)dum(e.) (,) et(g') ter(h)ré(i)na,(hf) tri(h')úm(h)phans,(g.) (;) di(i')ví(i)ti(h')as(h) cæ(iji)lo(hg/h!i!h'_5) (,) cón(f)di(e')dit(f) o(f!gwh'!iv)re,(h) ma(e.)nu.(e.) (::)"
magnificatEng: "1. My soul <span class='rubrics'>✠</span> doth magnify the Lord.<br/> 2. And my spirit hath rejoiced * in God my Saviour.<br/> 3. Because he hath regarded the humility of his handmaid; * for behold from henceforth all generations shall call me blessed.<br/> 4. Because he that is mighty, hath done great things to me; * and holy is his name.<br/> 5. And his mercy is from generation unto generations, * to them that fear him.<br/> 6. He hath shewed might in his arm: * he hath scattered the proud in the conceit of their heart.<br/> 7. He hath put down the mighty from their seat, * and hath exalted the humble.<br/> 8. He hath filled the hungry with good things; * and the rich he hath sent empty away.<br/> 9. He hath received Israel his servant, * being mindful of his mercy:<br/> 10. As he spoke to our fathers, * to Abraham and to his seed for ever.<br/>11. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.<br/>12. As it was in the beginning, is now, * and ever shall be, world without end. Amen.<br/><span class='rubrics'>Ant.</span> Lo, a servant of God * who esteemed but little things earthly. And by word and work laid him up treasure in heaven."
# Collect
collect: "Deus, qui per beátum Philíppum Confessórem tuum, exímium nobis humilitátis exémplum tribuísti: da fámulis tuis próspera mundi ex ejus imitatióne despícere, et cæléstia semper inquírere.<br/>Per Dóminum nostrum Jesum Christum, Fílium tuum: qui tecum vivit et regnat in unitáte Spíritus Sancti, Deus, per ómnia sǽcula sæculórum."
collectEng: "O God, Who hast given us in thy blessed Confessor Philip a wonderful example of lowliness, grant unto thy servants walking in his steps to set little store by the pleasant things of this life, and to seek ever for that glory which Thou hast prepared in heaven.<br/>Through Jesus Christ, thy Son our Lord, Who liveth and reigneth with thee, in the unity of the Holy Ghost, God, world without end."
---